---
layout: post
title: "THE_AIRBAG_SYSTEM_FOR_2-WHEELER_VEHICLES"
author_github: kiran-kumarg
date: 2017-12-08 2:00:10
image: '/assets/img/'
description: ''

categories:
- Piston
github_username: 'kiran-kumarg'
comments: true
---

**THE AIRBAG SYSTEM FOR 2-WHEELER VEHICLE SYSTEM**

**1. Introduction**

The Airbag system is first introduced in 4 -wheeler vehicles, this paper
gives an information about the introduction of the airbag system can be
used in the two wheelers(bikes) this paper shows the working,
construction, installation and what will be problems can occurs are
discussed.

The concept of this airbag system is “To reduce the injuries to a rider
when impacting with an opposing vehicle and/or opposing object in
frontal collisions by absorbing rider kinetic energy and by reducing
rider separation velocity from motorcycle in the forward direction.”
With the help of the ANGLE sensor with an angle indicator and sense of
the collision and the large frequency vibration for to open the air bag.

**2. Design with required instruments**

There are following instruments used for the 2 wheeler AIRBAG system—

2.1 Air bag (leather material with grip technology)

2.2 Chemical cylinders for releasing the air or gas

2.3 Sensors (angle sensor and crash sensor)

2.4 Fitting cage

2.5 Inflator

**2.1 Air bag (leather material with grip technology)**

Airbags are stretchable fabrics or other materials that are tightly
packed in various locations throughout your vehicle. These bags are
compressed and kept in a small area. When there is an accident, the
airbags fill up with air very quickly to provide a cushioning system for
the people on the motorcycle so that they are not thrown around in the
event of a crash. While this does not necessarily prevent total injury
or death, it can be very helpful in cushioning the passengers in many
cases.

**2.2 Chemical reaction behind opening of airbag**

Actual opening of air bag is due to the chemical reaction occurred in
between two chemical cylinders which are fitted at the bottom of bike.
When an external force or collision of two objects with bike occur then
those two chemical cylinders mixes with each other and the chemical
reaction takes place inside the cylinder.

In 2-wheeler vehicle system, the air bags are fitted in both sides of
the bike. Figure shows the position of the air bag system to be fitted
so that the total protection of the vehicle can be covered hence they
pedestrian safety can be achieved.

**2.3 Sensors (angle sensor and crash sensor)**

The most important parts of the success of the airbag system are the
sensors. These small pieces of electronics are designed to tell when the
vehicle has been damaged in an accident. They respond to several
different sets of stimuli, including sudden stopping, increased pressure
as pieces of the motorcycle are moved due to the force of the collision,
and angle between road surface and tires of motorcycle. Different types
of sensors measuring wheel speed, seat occupant status, brake pressure
and impact, and other vehicle status indicators are monitored by the
airbag control unit located in the front portion of the cabin.

**2.4 Fitting cage**

![Image1](/blog/assets/img/THE_AIRBAG_SYSTEM_FOR_2-WHEELER_VEHICLE/image1.jpeg)

Figure 1 - Modification for the airbag container

Figure 1 shows that the modification is required for the storage of
airbag. This cage is made up of metal strips with two openings for
airbag.

![Image2](/blog/assets/img/THE_AIRBAG_SYSTEM_FOR_2-WHEELER_VEHICLE/image2.jpeg)

> Figure 2 -airbag open in right side of bike due to exceeds the angle
> less than 30 degree

From figure 2 motorcycle exceeds the angle less than 30 degree in
between road surface and motorcycle tires by using an angle sensor,
hence as given above chemical reaction takes place and airbag opens in
right side of the motorcycle. In this figure 2 shows that the airbag
contains Grips to the lower surface of it.

![Image3](/blog/assets/img/THE_AIRBAG_SYSTEM_FOR_2-WHEELER_VEHICLE/image3.jpeg)

Figure 3-airbag open in both directions when any object collapse to the
motorcycle

In figure 3 airbag open in both directions when any object collapse to
the motorcycle. When any object collides with the motorcycle at that
time the airbag open in both directions to protect the passenger who is
riding.

**2.5 Inflator**

Once the control unit determines there is an accident, it sends a signal
to the inflator system. The inflator sets off a chemical charge,
producing an explosion of nitrogen gas, filling up the airbag. As the
airbag fills up, it bursts through the paneling that contains it and
order to protect you.

This all happens in an instant, usually within 25 or 50 milliseconds.
That translates to almost 200 miles per hour. The airbag then will
deflate itself on its own once it deploys

**How air bag system protects the human body parts –**

The provision of air bags on motorcycles is more complex than
installation in cars, because the dynamics of a motorcycle crash are
more difficult to predict but we discuss following points on accident
.These characteristics leads to act with very short reaction time and
fast inflation but only if the motorcycle is involve in the accident the
greater limit of these device is that they work properly only under the
particular conditions Especially the rider must remain on the motorcycle
during the accident and the impact dynamics must lead him to hit exactly
thr part of his vehicle protected by airbags.

Normally, following kinds of bodily harms occur in the accident

-Hand/leg Cracks or fractures

-Head injury

-Bleeding from body parts

-Getting thrown from bike

![Image4](/blog/assets/img/THE_AIRBAG_SYSTEM_FOR_2-WHEELER_VEHICLE/image4.jpeg)

We can get protection from the above mentioned bodily harms as described
as, the air bag system opens from the bottom to the left or right side
of bike; hence we can avoid hand/leg cracks or fractures. The diameter
of the air bag when opened is more than height of the bike and that of
the rider, hence head injury is avoided. As the material used in the air
bag construction is light weight strong leather the chances of bike
skidding or slipping is diminished and external injuries like scratches
are avoided. The chances of the rider being thrown from the bike are
avoided as the leather belts are provided on both sides of the bike to
secure the legs of the rider. The material used for constructing these
belts is similar to those used for constructing the seat belts in the
cars.

**Conclusion**

By providing the total safety to the motorcycle rider by implanting the
airbags in both sides of the motorcycle as mention in this article we
will reduce the fatality rate by 20% to 30%.by using this technology
there is not only reduce the death rate but also gives the total
protection to the rider as well as motorcycle.
